>> Bianca Gandolfo: We're gonna spend ten
minutes pseudocoding out these operations,
not the hashing function though.
You can just assume that the hashing
function works under some rules that you
create, right?
The rule probably is the number needs to
be returned between 0 and 10 or something.
You wanna have a rule in turn, because
you don't want it to return 352 when
you wanna work with
an array that's size 10.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool.
>> Speaker 2: Sorry, I'm still confused.
Where would the hash take place
with us implementing this
cuz we can just assign a key and
a value to an object, right,
without-
>> Bianca Gandolfo: We're using an array
though and
our hash is gonna hash to an index.
>> Speaker 2: Okay, I see.
Okay, thank you.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, yeah.
We had a task.
Our task was pseudo,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Code out.
>> Speaker 3: [INAUDIBLE] Size, please.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Out a hash table,
all right.
So we have our constructor.
What do we need inside of our constructor?
>> Speaker 4: Storage.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Some sort of storage.
What did you guys use for your storage?
>> Speaker 4: An array.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Some empty array.
And then you also want a hashingFunction,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Right?
That's gonna take some value and return,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: An index for
the array, right?
So we can initialize
our array to size ten.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
we'll just have an array.
Let's do five to save some typing here.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So here we are.
That should say undefined.
So we're initializing our array to
size five and this is our hash table.
And we have a hashing function and
it's going to return index for the array.
Specifically what that means is gonna
return a number between 0 and 4, right?
Cuz our hashing function actually
doesn't know anything about the array.
It just knows that it
has to return a number,
an integer, in between zero and four.
And that's a constraint that we
can give to our hash function and
hash functions tend to be flexible, and
we'll talk about why in just a second.
So here's our hash function.
So then we had a few methods.
We had a setter, we had a getter and
then we had a remove, right?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So to set,
we're gonna take a key and
a value and we want to save the value,
save the value in the array, right?
And for that to happen,
we somehow have to get our key,
which might be a string, right?
What was an example that we used earlier,
thingamajig?
>> Speaker 2: Yes.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Thingamajig is
our key and our value was true.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: We now wanna
make this saved into our storage.
So how do we do that?
So we say the value in the array, so
we need to run the hash function,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: With only the key,
thingamajig.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Gonna run it.
This is going to return,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Some value.
Let's say it returns 4,
let's say it returns 3, actually.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And
then you want to save true which
is our value to the third index
of our storage,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool?
So that's how we are saving properties and
values into our hash table.
Any questions about that?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool, yeah?
>> Speaker 5: In the storage, what is
the difference using undefined or null?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: What's the difference
between undefined and null?
>> Speaker 5: What if we use that-
>> Bianca Gandolfo: What if we use null?
>> Speaker 5: Yeah.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
when you initialize an array,
it's gonna initialize it to undefined,
it's not gonna initialize it to null.
For you to initialize each value to null,
you'd have to loop through the array and
set it to null.
But if you initialize an array on its own,
it's just automatically gonna
have an empty array with
a bunch of undefineds in it.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Okay, so
we're gonna have a getter.
What do we pass to our getter?
>> Speaker 4: You pass the key.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah,
we're gonna pass the key.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And the thing
that we wanna do here is you wanna
return the value, right?
>> Speaker 4: Yeah.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Value
saved in storage.
So what do we need to do to get there?
>> Speaker 4: We have to run
the hashing function on the key again.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yep.
>> Speaker 4: And because it's a hashing
function it'll return the same value that
it did the first time.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm-hm.
>> Speaker 4: Which will give
you the address in the array.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: It's
gonna return the same value.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So for
example, 3 for thingamajig.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Right, and
then with that value we can just go
directly,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: We
can go directly to our storage.
Retrieve value from storage
using the index from the hash function.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool,
does that make sense?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Great.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So, remove.
So say that we no longer wanna have
a thingamajig,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Equals
true in our hash table.
Cuz we're like, wow, that's the least
useful thing to have in our hash table,
we need to get it out.
How do we do that?
>> Speaker 2: Can we just set the,
>> Speaker 2: The value to that
key to null?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah,
so when we remove it,
we're gonna pass the key again, right?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So we wanna set
the value at the index to null,
maybe undefined, whatever,
something like that.
How do we get the index?
>> Speaker 2: Hash the key.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yep,
hash the key to get the index.
And then, look up index on storage,
set that to null, cool.